---
layout: post
title: Skirts
subtitle: The best outfit to Rock & Roll
tags: [Etymology, Skirts, Outskirt, Falda, Spanish, German, Hebrew]
comments: true
categories: Etymology
published: false
---

What is a skirt? 

This word is more mysterious than meets the eye. 

(In a dark film noir voice:) Let's go over the facts of the case again. 

According to [Etymology Online](https://www.etymonline.com/word/skirt), skirt is the lower part of a woman dress. This is attested from early 14th century. The other known meaning - as in "border or edge" is attested from late 15th century.

But something is not right here.

Why not? Take a word like **outskirts** - it makes perfect sense. The outer border of a place (a city or a town).

Yes, but many languages use the word skirt to refer to the lower parts of mountains. Take the spanish **falda** - you can say "las faldas de una montaña". And apparantly this is true for Bulgarian. 

Now mountains came before skirts. But it could be that no one thought about a word for their lower parts, until it resembeled something that they saw before - like a skirt. 

According to [here](http://etimologias.dechile.net/?falda) skirts came to be by **folding** robes around a belt - when it's cold you wear the robe fully, and when it's warm, you let it loose around the belt, and you get - a skirt. That is the source of the word in Spanish, and it comes from the same verb as to fold. This can also make (somewhat) sense in Hebrew where the word is חצאית meaning "half".

The German word is **Rock** - which sounds a lot like the english Rock. 

***
If you’re looking for statistical consultation, work on interesting projects, or training workshop, visit my website https://meerkatstatistics.com/  or contact me directly at david@meerkatstatistics.com 